README.md, before:

# 🧠 RAGify - Lightweight RAG Service with FastAPI, FAISS, and OpenAI

**RAGify** is a minimal and powerful **Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG)** service built with **FastAPI**, **FAISS**, and **OpenAI API**.
It allows you to **upload PDF or CSV documents, store them as vector embeddings locally using FAISS, and chat with them using OpenAI's GPT models.**

---

## 🚀 Features

- Upload and parse **PDF** and **CSV** files.
- Embeds documents using **local SentenceTransformer (MiniLM-L6-v2)** or **OpenAI Embeddings**.
- Stores vectors efficiently using **FAISS local index**.
- **Chat** with your documents using **OpenAI GPT models (like GPT-3.5-Turbo)**.
- Lightweight and privacy-friendly (documents never leave your machine).
- Duplicate file uploads are automatically detected using **SHA256 hashing**.
- Simple to run locally or in Docker.

---

## 🛠️ Installation

### 🔧 Running Locally (Recommended for development)

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/HagaiHen/rag-service.git
cd rag-service
```

2.	Create .env file in the root:
```bash
OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
MONGO_URI=mongodb+srv://<user>:<password>@cluster.mongodb.net
MONGO_DB=rag_service
```

3.	Install dependencies:
```bash
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

4.	Run the FastAPI server:
```bash
uvicorn app.main:app --reload
```
5.	Visit:
  
•	Swagger Docs: http://localhost:8000/docs <br>
•	ReDoc: http://localhost:8000/redoc

### 🐳 Running with Docker <br>
1.	Build the image:
```bash
docker build -t rag-service .
```

2.	Run the container:
```bash
docker run --env-file .env -p 8000:8000 ragify
```

## 💡 API Usage Example

1. Upload a File <br>
	•	POST /upload <br>
	•	Body: form-data <br>
	•	file: (upload your .pdf or .csv) <br>

2. Chat with your data <br>
        •       POST /chat <br>
        •       Query Params: <br>
        •       user_input: "What is this document about?" <br>
        •       session_id: "my-session-id" <br>
        •       user_id: "my-user"

3. Retrieve chat history <br>
        •       GET /history <br>
        •       Query Params: <br>
        •       user_id: "my-user" <br>
        •       session_id: "my-session-id" (optional)
        <br>Omit the session_id to retrieve history for all sessions of the user.

Chat history is cached in memory and also stored in MongoDB per user and session. \
If the service restarts or the cache is empty, history is loaded from the database.
Cached sessions are automatically removed after 15 minutes of inactivity.

---

## 📜 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.
Feel free to use, modify, and distribute it.

---

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome!
	1.	Fork the repo
	2.	Create your feature branch (git checkout -b feature/awesome-feature)
	3.	Commit your changes (git commit -m 'Add amazing feature')
	4.	Push to the branch (git push origin feature/awesome-feature)
	5.	Open a Pull Request

Commit message:

Add async chat streaming endpoint

README.md, after:

# 🧠 RAGify - Lightweight RAG Service with FastAPI, FAISS, and OpenAI

**RAGify** is a minimal and powerful **Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG)** service built with **FastAPI**, **FAISS**, and **OpenAI API**.
It allows you to **upload PDF or CSV documents, store them as vector embeddings locally using FAISS, and chat with them using OpenAI's GPT models.**

---

## 🚀 Features

- Upload and parse **PDF** and **CSV** files.
- Embeds documents using **local SentenceTransformer (MiniLM-L6-v2)** or **OpenAI Embeddings**.
- Stores vectors efficiently using **FAISS local index**.
- **Chat** with your documents using **OpenAI GPT models (like GPT-3.5-Turbo)**.
- Real-time **async chat** endpoint streams tokens as they are generated.
- Lightweight and privacy-friendly (documents never leave your machine).
- Duplicate file uploads are automatically detected using **SHA256 hashing**.
- Simple to run locally or in Docker.

---

## 🛠️ Installation

### 🔧 Running Locally (Recommended for development)

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/HagaiHen/rag-service.git
cd rag-service
```

2.	Create .env file in the root:
```bash
OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
MONGO_URI=mongodb+srv://<user>:<password>@cluster.mongodb.net
MONGO_DB=rag_service
```

3.	Install dependencies:
```bash
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

4.	Run the FastAPI server:
```bash
uvicorn app.main:app --reload
```
5.	Visit:
  
•	Swagger Docs: http://localhost:8000/docs <br>
•	ReDoc: http://localhost:8000/redoc

### 🐳 Running with Docker <br>
1.	Build the image:
```bash
docker build -t rag-service .
```

2.	Run the container:
```bash
docker run --env-file .env -p 8000:8000 ragify
```

## 💡 API Usage Example

1. Upload a File <br>
	•	POST /upload <br>
	•	Body: form-data <br>
	•	file: (upload your .pdf or .csv) <br>

2. Chat with your data <br>
        •       POST /chat <br>
        •       Query Params: <br>
        •       user_input: "What is this document about?" <br>
        •       session_id: "my-session-id" <br>
        •       user_id: "my-user"
        <br><br>
        •       POST /async_chat <br>
        •       Same query params as /chat, but streams the response token-by-token

3. Retrieve chat history <br>
        •       GET /history <br>
        •       Query Params: <br>
        •       user_id: "my-user" <br>
        •       session_id: "my-session-id" (optional)
        <br>Omit the session_id to retrieve history for all sessions of the user.

Chat history is cached in memory and also stored in MongoDB per user and session. \
If the service restarts or the cache is empty, history is loaded from the database.
Cached sessions are automatically removed after 15 minutes of inactivity.

---

## 📜 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.
Feel free to use, modify, and distribute it.

---

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome!
	1.	Fork the repo
	2.	Create your feature branch (git checkout -b feature/awesome-feature)
	3.	Commit your changes (git commit -m 'Add amazing feature')
	4.	Push to the branch (git push origin feature/awesome-feature)
	5.	Open a Pull Request
